Processes play a major role on an operating system. When you execute a computer program in your system, it is done with a process. Without processes, you aren’t able to do any activity on an OS. In this chapter, you look at processes and how to perform various tasks. You also see various types of processes that can occur during the execution of a program. Signals are interrupts or traps (a trap is a fault) that raise an event when an exception occurs. It is very handy to be able to detect exceptions and interrupts caused by the system or a program. Signals are more helpful when working with core system-level applications. This chapter discusses the following topics. Introduction to process environments Linux subsystems Process creation A zombie process An orphan process System calls for process management Signals and their types System calls for signal management Introduction to the Process Environment An executing program is considered a process. To get a deeper understanding of a process, you need to be familiar with the process environment. Let’s consider the internal working mechanisms of a normal C program that is subjected to the kernel for execution. You are already know that every C program execution starts with the main () function; but behind the scenes, a special start-up routine is called by the kernel before calling the main () function. When you compile C code, an executable is generated by the compiler. This executable program contains the starting address of the start-up routine set up by the linker when the program is executed. But when ASLR (address space layout randomization) is enabled, the startup routine address is unpredictable. ASLR is a memory protection mechanism that resolves buffer overflow issues by randomizing the location. This startup routine usually takes a kernel. That type of argument is called a command-line argument . Let’s start with some basics and work toward a deeper understanding. A typical C program main function look likes the following. int main (int argc, char *argv []); It contains two parameters that take command-line arguments. argc takes an integer type as an argument that contains the number of command-line arguments passed by the programmer. The parameters that are passing to the command line should be space separated. This means if you pass hello world, it is considered two different arguments, but hello_world is a single argument. If you want to pass a spaced single argument, it is advisable to pass it inside double quotes (i.e., “hello world”), which is also considered a single argument.
